Logging
=======


* Diagnostic logging: has been discussed by others already and I won't belabor the point much more. I'll just say you should strongly think about what happens if there's a log failure? Do you care enough to throw an exception up through the app or manage it another way? This is an "it depends" but logging info level messages probably should be skipped. That is the diagnostic part of logging, the most important one and basically the one that developers could understand easier, as it is more part of their daily work routine. The diagnostic logging takes care of recording the events that happen during runtime ( method calls, input/outputs, HTTP calls, SQL executions )

* Audit logging: is a business requirement. Audit logging captures significant events in the system and are what management and the legal eagles are interested in. This is things like who signed off on something, who did what edits, etc. As a sysadmin or developer troubleshooting the system, you're probably only mildly interested in these. However, in many cases this kind of logging is absolutely part of the transaction and should fail the whole transaction if it can't be completed. The audit logging is responsible for recording more abstract, business logic events. Such events can be user actions (adding/editing/removal of content, transactions, access data) or other things that have either managerial value or, more importantly, legal value. Special attention on keeping the state on the central database, so you can officially track them for compliance, and also create code to react to business events, something that you couldn't achieve if you simply throw the information to an external text file.
